Add Spotlight Blog for SIG Release - Release Team Subproject (#424)
kubernetes/contributor-site: content/en/blog/2023/sig-release-spotlight/sig-release-spotlight.md

Reviewer: Please wrap the Markdown source at, say, 100 characters per line.

Author: Resolved!

---
layout: blog
title: "Spotlight on SIG Release (Release Team Subproject)"

> date: 2023-12-01

Reviewer: This date is in the past. Let's pick a new date; ideally, one that Release Comms are OK with.

/hold

OK to unhold once the publication date is in the future.

Author: cc: @fsmunoz ^^

slug: sig-release-spotlight-2023
author: Nitish Kumar
---

The Release Special Interest Group (SIG Release), where Kubernetes sharpens its blade 
with cutting-edge features and bug fixes every 4 months. Have you ever considered how such a big 
project like Kubernetes manages its timeline so efficiently to release its new version, or how 
the internal workings of the Release Team look like? If you're curious about these questions or

> want to know more and get involved with the work SIG release does, read on!

Reviewer: (nit)
```suggestion
want to know more and get involved with the work SIG Release does, read on!
```

Sorry we missed this before.

repository. For a contributor to be the part of Release Team, they typically go through the
Release Shadow program, but that's not the only way to get involved with SIG Release.
  
- **Beginning Phase:** In the initial weeks of each release cycle, SIG Release diligently
tracks the progress of new features and enhancements outlined in Kubernetes Enhancement
Proposals (KEPs). While not all of these features are entirely new, they often commence
their journey in the alpha phase, subsequently advancing to the beta stage, and ultimately 
attaining the status of stability. 
  
- **Feature Maturation Phase:** We usually cut a couple of Alpha releases, containing new 
features in an experimental state, to gather feedback from the community, followed by a 
couple of Beta releases, where features are more stable and the focus is on fixing bugs. Feedback 
from users is critical at this stage, to the point where sometimes we need to cut an 
additional Beta release to address bugs or other concerns that may arise during this phase. Once 

> this is cleared, we cut an Release Candidate (RC) before the actual release. Throughout

Reviewer: ```suggestion
this is cleared, we cut a _release candidate_ (RC) before the actual release. Throughout
```

Author: resolved

the cycle, efforts are made to update and improve documentation, including release notes 
and user guides, a process that, in my opinion, deserves its own post.
  

> - **Stabalisation Phase:** A few weeks before the new release, we implement a Code Freeze, and 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Stabilisation Phase:** A few weeks before the new release, we implement a _code freeze_, and 
```

> **1. What is the typical release process for a new version of Kubernetes, from initial planning
> to the final release? Are there any specific methodologies and tools that you use to ensure a smooth release?**
> 
> The release process for a new Kubernetes version is a well-structured and community-driven
> effort. There are no specific methodologies or 
> tools as such that we follow, except a calendar with a series of steps to keep things organised.
> The complete release process looks like this:
> 
> - **Release Team Onboarding:** We start with the formation of a Release Team, which includes
> volunteers from the Kubernetes community who will be responsible for managing different 
> components of the new release. This is typically done before the previous release is about to
> wrap up. Once the team is formed, new members are onboarded while the Release Team Lead and
> the Branch Manager propose a calendar for the usual deliverables. As an example, you can take a look at [the v1.29 team formation issue](https://github.com/kubernetes/sig-release/issues/2307) created at the SIG Release
> repository. For a contributor to be the part of Release Team, they typically go through the
> Release Shadow program, but that's not the only way to get involved with SIG Release.
>   
> - **Beginning Phase:** In the initial weeks of each release cycle, SIG Release diligently
> tracks the progress of new features and enhancements outlined in Kubernetes Enhancement
> Proposals (KEPs). While not all of these features are entirely new, they often commence
> their journey in the alpha phase, subsequently advancing to the beta stage, and ultimately 
> attaining the status of stability. 
>   
> - **Feature Maturation Phase:** We usually cut a couple of Alpha releases, containing new 
> features in an experimental state, to gather feedback from the community, followed by a 
> couple of Beta releases, where features are more stable and the focus is on fixing bugs. Feedback 
> from users is critical at this stage, to the point where sometimes we need to cut an 
> additional Beta release to address bugs or other concerns that may arise during this phase. Once 
> this is cleared, we cut a _release candidate_ (RC) before the actual release. Throughout
> the cycle, efforts are made to update and improve documentation, including release notes 
> and user guides, a process that, in my opinion, deserves its own post.
>   
> - **Stabilization Phase:** A few weeks before the new release, we implement a _code freeze_, and 
> no new features are allowed after this point: this allows the focus to shift towards testing 
> and stabalisation. In parallel to the main release, we keep cutting monthly patches of old, 
> officially supported versions of Kubernetes, so you could say that the lifecycle of a Kubernetes 
> version extends for several months afterwards. Throughout the complete Release cycle, efforts 
> are made to update and improve documentation, including release notes and user guides, a 
> process that, in our opinion, deserves its own post.
> <figure>
>   <img src="/blog/2023/sig-release-spotlight/sig-release-overview.png" alt="sig-release-overview"></img>
> </figure>

Reviewer: To clarify https://github.com/kubernetes/contributor-site/pull/424#pullrequestreview-1774138786, here's an example of numbering using Markdown:
```suggestion

1. **What is the typical release process for a new version of Kubernetes, from initial planning
to the final release? Are there any specific methodologies and tools that you use to ensure a smooth release?**

   The release process for a new Kubernetes version is a well-structured and community-driven
   effort. There are no specific methodologies or
   tools as such that we follow, except a calendar with a series of steps to keep things organised.
   The complete release process looks like this:

   - **Release Team Onboarding:** We start with the formation of a Release Team, which includes
     volunteers from the Kubernetes community who will be responsible for managing different
     components of the new release. This is typically done before the previous release is about to
     wrap up. Once the team is formed, new members are onboarded while the Release Team Lead and
     the Branch Manager propose a calendar for the usual deliverables. As an example, you can take a look
     at [the v1.29 team formation issue](https://github.com/kubernetes/sig-release/issues/2307) created at the SIG Release
     repository. For a contributor to be the part of Release Team, they typically go through the
     Release Shadow program, but that's not the only way to get involved with SIG Release.

   - **Beginning Phase:** In the initial weeks of each release cycle, SIG Release diligently
     tracks the progress of new features and enhancements outlined in Kubernetes Enhancement
     Proposals (KEPs). While not all of these features are entirely new, they often commence
     their journey in the alpha phase, subsequently advancing to the beta stage, and ultimately
     attaining the status of stability.

   - **Feature Maturation Phase:** We usually cut a couple of Alpha releases, containing new
     features in an experimental state, to gather feedback from the community, followed by a
     couple of Beta releases, where features are more stable and the focus is on fixing bugs. Feedback
     from users is critical at this stage, to the point where sometimes we need to cut an
     additional Beta release to address bugs or other concerns that may arise during this phase. Once
     this is cleared, we cut a _release candidate_ (RC) before the actual release. Throughout
     the cycle, efforts are made to update and improve documentation, including release notes
     and user guides, a process that, in my opinion, deserves its own post.

   - **Stabilisation Phase:** A few weeks before the new release, we implement a _code freeze_, and
     no new features are allowed after this point: this allows the focus to shift towards testing
     and stabilisation. In parallel to the main release, we keep cutting monthly patches of old,
     officially supported versions of Kubernetes, so you could say that the lifecycle of a Kubernetes
     version extends for several months afterwards. Throughout the complete release cycle, efforts
     are made to update and improve documentation, including release notes and user guides, a
     process that, in our opinion, deserves its own post.
   
   {{< figure src="/blog/2024/sig-release-spotlight/sig-release-overview.png" caption="SIG Release overview" alt="Release team onboarding; beginning phase; stabalization phase; feature maturation phase" >}}
```

I left the typo in the alt attribute as I heard that we don't have an easy way to draw a different image.

author: Nitish Kumar
---

**Author**: Nitish Kumar

Special Interest Group Release (SIG Release), where Kubernetes sharpens its blade with cutting edge features and bug-fixes every 4 months. Have you ever thought how such a big project like Kubernetes manage its timeline so efficiently to release its new version? How is the internal working of Release Team looks like? and so on. If you're ever curious about these questions or finding their way to get involved within the SIG Release but feeling overwhelmed, you're at the right place.

SIG Release plays a crucial role in the development and evolution of Kubernetes, an open-source container orchestration platform. Its primary responsibility is to manage the release process of new versions of Kubernetes. It operates on a regular release cycle, typically every three to four months. During this cycle, the Kubernetes release Team work closely with other SIGs and contributors to ensure a smooth and well-coordinated release. This includes planning the release schedule, setting deadlines for code freeze and testing phases, as well as creating release artifacts like binaries, documentation, and release notes.

> Before you read further, it is important to note that there are two subprojects that comes under the SIG Release, *Release Engineering & Release Team*.

Author: You sure we have to use the coding block here and not Italic?

**7. What will you suggest to someone who has got rejected from being a part of the Release Shadow Program several times?**

Keep applying.

With every release cycle we have had an exponential growth in the number of applicants, so it gets harder to be selected, which can be discouraging, but please know that getting rejected doesn’t mean you’re not talented. It’s just practically impossible to accept every applicant, however here's an alternative that we suggest:

*Start attending our weekly Kubernetes SIG Release meetings to introduce yourself and get familiar with the team and the projects we are working on.*

> The Release Team is the only way to join SIG Release, but we are always looking for more hands to help. Again, in addition to certain technical ability, the most sought after trait that we look for is people we can trust, and that requires time.

Reviewer 2: Is this correct though? I think that the Release Team takes on some of the responsibility of this specific subproject, but it's different from being the only way to join SIG Release.

Author: I had the same doubt too. I'll reconfirm this thing.

![diagram-3](/content/en/blog/2023/sig-release-spotlight/sig-release-motivation.png)

**8. Can you discuss any ongoing initiatives or upcoming features that the release team is particularly excited about for Kubernetes v1.28? How do these advancements align with the long-term vision of Kubernetes?**

We are excited about finally publishing Kubernetes packages on community infrastructure. It has been something that we have been wanting to do for a few years now, but it’s a project with many technical implications that must be in place before doing the transition. Once that’s done, we’ll be able to increase our productivity and take control of the entire workflows.

> ### Final Thoughts

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Final thoughts
```

> Well this conversation ends here but not the learning. I hope this blog has given you some idea over what SIG Release does and how to get started working under SIG Release. It is important to mention again that this blog covers the first subproject under SIG Release that is Release Team. In the next Spotlight blog on SIG Release, we will provide a spotlight on the Release Engineering subproject and how to put forward meaningful contributions to the community. Finally, go through the [SIG Release charter](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/sig-release) to get in depth understanding on how SIG Release operates.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Well, this conversation ends here but not the learning. I hope this interview has given you some idea about what SIG Release does and how to get started in helping out. It is important to mention again that this article covers the first subproject under SIG Release, the Release Team. In the next Spotlight blog on SIG Release, we will provide a spotlight on the Release Engineering subproject, what it does and how to get involved. Finally, you can go through the [SIG Release charter](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/sig-release) to get a more in-depth understanding of how SIG Release operates.
```

---
layout: blog
title: "Spotlight on SIG Release (Release Team Subproject)"

> date: 2023-08-29

Reviewer: We'll need a future date
/hold

slug: sig-release-spotlight-2023
author: Nitish Kumar
---

> **Author**: Nitish Kumar

Author: You mean the line number 8?

> **Author**: Nitish Kumar

Reviewer 2: Line 9, Author. THis is needed for k/website, but not in k/contributor-site

The Release Special Interest Group  (SIG Release), where Kubernetes sharpens its blade with cutting-edge features and bug fixes every 4 months:  have you ever considered how such a big project like Kubernetes manages its timeline so efficiently to release its new version,  or how the internal workings of the Release Team look like? If you're curious about these questions or want to know more and get involved with the work SIG release does, read on!

> SIG Release plays a crucial role in the development and evolution of Kubernetes. Its primary responsibility is to manage the release process of new versions of Kubernetes. It operates on a regular release cycle, [typically every three to four months](https://kubernetes.io/releases/release/). During this cycle, the Kubernetes Release Team works closely with other SIGs and contributors to ensure a smooth and well-coordinated release. This includes planning the release schedule, setting deadlines for code freeze and testing phases, as well as creating release artefacts like binaries, documentation, and release notes.

Reviewer: You could link to https://www.kubernetes.dev/release/ - if you want to.

(if https://www.kubernetes.dev/resources/release/ doesn't mention the 3-releases-per-year detail, maybe it should!)

Before you read further, it is important to note that there are two subprojects under SIG Release, _Release Engineering_ and _Release Team_.

> In this blog post, [Nitish Kumar](https://twitter.com/Nitishtwt06) interviews the [Chairs and Technical Leads](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/sig-release#leadership) of SIG Release with the spotlight on the Release Team subproject, how the release process looks like, and ways to get involved.

Reviewer: I would name who those interviewees were _at the time of the interview_, as https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/sig-release#leadership is subject to change.

Author: This was the response from Veronica:

_I am the only one who typed the answers, however, my answers are based on the responses we tend to give as a group in other similar situations, such as interviews, blog posts and talks. Most of the team members were on vacation from the beginning of the summer, and others are currently on vacation, so taking everyone's thoughts can be tricky. But my suggestion is to ask one question per available team member and see what they think.
Similar questions and info can be found in these videos:_

Reviewer 2: @nitishfy I would use something like "... interviews Verónica López (PlanetScale), Technical Lead of SIG Release". This is objectively true since being interviewed doesn't mean that the information conveyed wasn't originally part of a group effort (that's almost always true). If it's absolutely needed, you can add "... of SIG Release (with assistance from Foo and Bar, also Leads in SIG Release).

  
- **Beginning Phase:** In the initial weeks of each release cycle, SIG Release diligently tracks the progress of new features and enhancements outlined in Kubernetes Enhancement Proposals (KEPs). While not all of these features are entirely new, they often commence their journey in the alpha phase, subsequently advancing to the beta stage, and ultimately attaining the status of stability. 
  
- **Feature Maturation Phase:** We usually cut a couple of Alpha releases, containing new features in an experimental state, to gather feedback from the community, followed by a couple of Beta releases, where features are more stable and the focus is on fixing bugs. Feedback from users is critical at this stage, to the point where sometimes we need to cut an additional Beta release to address bugs or other concerns that may arise during this phase. Once this is cleared, we cut an RC (release candidate) before the actual release. Throughout the cycle, efforts are made to update and improve documentation, including release notes and user guides, a process that, in my opinion, deserves its own post.
  

> - **Stabilisation Phase:** A few weeks before the new release, we implement a Code Freeze, and no new features are allowed after this point: this allows the focus to shift towards testing and stabilisation. In parallel to the main release, we keep cutting monthly patches of old, officially supported versions of Kubernetes, so you could say that the lifecycle of a Kubernetes version extends for several months afterwards. Throughout the complete Release cycle, efforts are made to update and improve documentation, including release notes and user guides, a process that, in our opinion, deserves its own post.![diagram-1](/content/en/blog/2023/sig-release-spotlight/sig-release-overview.png)

Reviewer: I'd use a [figure](https://gohugo.io/content-management/shortcodes/#figure) shortcode. Set an real alt attribute if you can.

**4. As a new contributor, what should be my ideal path to get involved with SIG Release? In a community where everyone is busy with their own tasks, how can I find the right set of tasks to contribute effectively to it?**

Everyone's way of getting involved within the Open Source community is different. SIG Release is a self-serving team, meaning that we write our own tools to be able to ship releases. We collaborate a lot with other SIGs, such as [SIG K8s Infra](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/sig-k8s-infra/README.md), but all the tools that we used needs to be tailor-made for our massive technical needs, while reducing costs. This means that we are constantly looking for volunteers who’d like to help with different types of projects, beyond “just” cutting a release.

> Our current project requires a mix of skills like [Go programming](https://go.dev/), understanding Kubernetes internals, Linux packaging, supply chain security, technical writing, and general open-source project maintenance. This skill set is always evolving as our project grows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our current project requires a mix of skills like [Go](https://go.dev/) programming, understanding Kubernetes internals, Linux packaging, supply chain security, technical writing, and general open-source project maintenance. This skill set is always evolving as our project grows.
```

For an ideal path, this is what we suggest:

- Get yourself familiar with the code, including how features are managed, the release calendar, and the overall structure of the Release Team.
- Join the Kubernetes community communication channels, such as [Slack](https://communityinviter.com/apps/kubernetes/community) (#sig-release), where we are particularly active. 

> - Join the [SIG Release weekly meetings](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/sig-release#meetings) which are open to all in the community.Participating in these meetings is a great way to learn about ongoing and future projects that you might find relevant for your skillset and interests.

Author: Resolved

*Start attending our weekly Kubernetes SIG Release meetings to introduce yourself and get familiar with the team and the projects we are working on.*

The Release Team is the only way to join SIG Release, but we are always looking for more hands to help. Again, in addition to certain technical ability, the most sought after trait that we look for is people we can trust, and that requires time.
![diagram-3](/content/en/blog/2023/sig-release-spotlight/sig-release-motivation.png)

**8. Can you discuss any ongoing initiatives or upcoming features that the release team is particularly excited about for Kubernetes v1.28? How do these advancements align with the long-term vision of Kubernetes?**

We are excited about finally publishing Kubernetes packages on community infrastructure. It has been something that we have been wanting to do for a few years now, but it’s a project with many technical implications that must be in place before doing the transition. Once that’s done, we’ll be able to increase our productivity and take control of the entire workflows.

> ### Final thoughts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Final thoughts
```

---
layout: blog
title: "Spotlight on SIG Release (Release Team Subproject)"
date: TBD
slug: sig-release-spotlight-2023
author: Nitish Kumar
---

> The Release Special Interest Group  (SIG Release), where Kubernetes sharpens its blade with cutting-edge features and bug fixes every 4 months:  have you ever considered how such a big project like Kubernetes manages its timeline so efficiently to release its new version,  or how the internal workings of the Release Team look like? If you're curious about these questions or want to know more and get involved with the work SIG release does, read on!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Release Special Interest Group (SIG Release), where Kubernetes sharpens its blade 
with cutting-edge features and bug fixes every 4 months:  
have you ever considered how such a big project like Kubernetes manages its timeline 
so efficiently to release its new version, or how the internal workings of the Release Team look like? 
If you're curious about these questions or want to know more and get involved 
with the work SIG release does, read on!
```
"Please wrap the Markdown source at, say, 100 characters per line."

SIG Release plays a crucial role in the development and evolution of Kubernetes. Its primary responsibility is to manage the release process of new versions of Kubernetes. It operates on a regular release cycle, [typically every three to four months](https://www.kubernetes.dev/resources/release/). During this cycle, the Kubernetes Release Team works closely with other SIGs and contributors to ensure a smooth and well-coordinated release. This includes planning the release schedule, setting deadlines for code freeze and testing phases, as well as creating release artefacts like binaries, documentation, and release notes.

Before you read further, it is important to note that there are two subprojects under SIG Release, _Release Engineering_ and _Release Team_.

> In this blog post, [Nitish Kumar](https://twitter.com/Nitishtwt06) interviews Verónica López(PlanetScale), Technical Lead of SIG Release with the spotlight on the Release Team subproject, how the release process looks like, and ways to get involved.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this blog post, [Nitish Kumar](https://twitter.com/Nitishtwt06) interviews Verónica López (PlanetScale), Technical Lead of SIG Release, with the spotlight on the Release Team subproject, how the release process looks like, and ways to get involved.
```

> In this blog post, [Nitish Kumar](https://twitter.com/Nitishtwt06) interviews Verónica López(PlanetScale), Technical Lead of SIG Release with the spotlight on the Release Team subproject, how the release process looks like, and ways to get involved.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In this blog post, [Nitish Kumar](https://twitter.com/Nitishtwt06) interviews Verónica López(PlanetScale), 
Technical Lead of SIG Release with the spotlight on the Release Team subproject, 
how the release process looks like, and ways to get involved.
```
"Please wrap the Markdown source at, say, 100 characters per line."

**1. What is the typical release process for a new version of Kubernetes, from initial planning to the final release? Are there any specific methodologies and tools that you use to ensure a smooth release?**

> The release process for a new Kubernetes version is a well-structured and community-driven effort. There are no specific methodologies or tools as such that we follow, except a calendar with a series of steps to keep things organised. The complete release process looks like this:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The release process for a new Kubernetes version is a well-structured and community-driven effort. 
There are no specific methodologies or tools as such that we follow, except a calendar 
with a series of steps to keep things organised. The complete release process looks like this:
```
"Please wrap the Markdown source at, say, 100 characters per line."

- **Release Team Onboarding:** We start with the formation of a Release Team, which includes volunteers from the Kubernetes community who will be responsible for managing different components of the new release. This is typically done before the previous release is about to wrap up. Once the team is formed, new members are onboarded while the Release Team Lead and the Branch Manager propose a calendar for the usual deliverables. As an example, you can take a look at [the v1.29 team formation issue](https://github.com/kubernetes/sig-release/issues/2307) created at the SIG Release repository. For a contributor to be the part of Release Team, they typically go through the Release Shadow program, but that's not the only way to get involved with SIG Release.
  

> - **Beginning Phase:** In the initial weeks of each release cycle, SIG Release diligently tracks the progress of new features and enhancements outlined in Kubernetes Enhancement Proposals (KEPs). While not all of these features are entirely new, they often commence their journey in the alpha phase, subsequently advancing to the beta stage, and ultimately attaining the status of stability. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Beginning Phase:** In the initial weeks of each release cycle, 
SIG Release diligently tracks the progress of new features and enhancements 
outlined in Kubernetes Enhancement Proposals (KEPs). 
While not all of these features are entirely new, they often commence their journey in the alpha phase, 
subsequently advancing to the beta stage, and ultimately attaining the status of stability/GA. 
```
"Please wrap the Markdown source at, say, 100 characters per line."

> - **Feature Maturation Phase:** We usually cut a couple of Alpha releases, containing new features in an experimental state, to gather feedback from the community, followed by a couple of Beta releases, where features are more stable and the focus is on fixing bugs. Feedback from users is critical at this stage, to the point where sometimes we need to cut an additional Beta release to address bugs or other concerns that may arise during this phase. Once this is cleared, we cut an RC (release candidate) before the actual release. Throughout the cycle, efforts are made to update and improve documentation, including release notes and user guides, a process that, in my opinion, deserves its own post.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Feature Maturation Phase:** We usually cut a couple of Alpha releases, 
containing new features in an experimental state, to gather feedback from the community, 
followed by a couple of Beta releases, where features are more stable and the focus is on fixing bugs. 
Feedback from users is critical at this stage, to the point where sometimes we need to cut an additional Beta release 
to address bugs or other concerns that may arise during this phase. 
Once this is cleared, we cut an RC (release candidate) before the actual release. 
Throughout the cycle, efforts are made to update and improve documentation, 
including release notes and user guides, a process that, in my opinion, deserves its own post.
```
"Please wrap the Markdown source at, say, 100 characters per line."

> - **Stabalization Phase:** A few weeks before the new release, we implement a Code Freeze, and no new features are allowed after this point: this allows the focus to shift towards testing and stabalization. In parallel to the main release, we keep cutting monthly patches of old, officially supported versions of Kubernetes, so you could say that the lifecycle of a Kubernetes version extends for several months afterwards. Throughout the complete Release cycle, efforts are made to update and improve documentation, including release notes and user guides, a process that, in our opinion, deserves its own post.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Stabilisation Phase:** A few weeks before the new release, we implement a Code Freeze, and no new features are allowed after this point: this allows the focus to shift towards testing and stabilisation. In parallel to the main release, we keep cutting monthly patches of old, officially supported versions of Kubernetes, so you could say that the lifecycle of a Kubernetes version extends for several months afterwards. Throughout the complete Release cycle, efforts are made to update and improve documentation, including release notes and user guides, a process that, in our opinion, deserves its own post.
```

> - **Stabalization Phase:** A few weeks before the new release, we implement a Code Freeze, and no new features are allowed after this point: this allows the focus to shift towards testing and stabalization. In parallel to the main release, we keep cutting monthly patches of old, officially supported versions of Kubernetes, so you could say that the lifecycle of a Kubernetes version extends for several months afterwards. Throughout the complete Release cycle, efforts are made to update and improve documentation, including release notes and user guides, a process that, in our opinion, deserves its own post.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Stabalization Phase:** A few weeks before the new release, we implement a Code Freeze, 
and no new features are allowed after this point: this allows the focus to shift towards testing and stabilization. 
In parallel to the main release, we keep cutting monthly patches of old, officially supported versions of Kubernetes, 
so you could say that the lifecycle of a Kubernetes version extends for several months afterwards.
```
1. "Please wrap the Markdown source at, say, 100 characters per line."
2. Remove this sentence "Throughout the complete Release cycle, efforts are made to update and improve documentation, 
including release notes and user guides, a process that, in our opinion, deserves its own post." as this is duplicate of last line of previous paragraph.

>   <figure>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
<figure>
```

  <img src="/blog/2023/sig-release-spotlight/sig-release-overview.png" alt="sig-release-overview">
</figure>
  

> **2. How do you handle the balance between stability and introducing new features in each release? What criteria are used to determine which features make it into a release?**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**2. How do you handle the balance between stability and introducing new features in each release? 
What criteria are used to determine which features make it into a release?**
```
"Please wrap the Markdown source at, say, 100 characters per line."

> It’s a neverending mission, however, we think that the key is in respecting our process and guidelines. Our guidelines are the result of hours of discussions and feedback from dozens of members of the community who bring a wealth of knowledge and experience to the project. If we didn’t have strict guidelines, we would keep having the same discussions over and over again, instead of using our time for more productive topics that needs our attention. All the critical exceptions require consensus from most of the team members, so we can ensure quality.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It’s a never-ending mission, however, we think that the key is in respecting our process and guidelines. 
Our guidelines are the result of hours of discussions and feedback from dozens of members of the community 
who bring a wealth of knowledge and experience to the project. 
If we didn’t have strict guidelines, we would keep having the same discussions over and over again, 
instead of using our time for more productive topics that needs our attention. 
All the critical exceptions require consensus from most of the team members, so we can ensure quality.
```
"Please wrap the Markdown source at, say, 100 characters per line."

> The process of deciding what makes it into a release starts way before the Release Teams takes over the workflows. Each individual SIG along with the most experienced contributors gets to decide whether they’d like to include a feature or change, so the planning and ultimate approval usually belongs to them. Then, the Release Team makes sure those contributions meet the requirements of documentation, testing, backwards compatibility, among others, before officially allowing them in. A similar process happens with cherry-picks for the monthly patch releases, where we have strict policies about not accepting PRs that would require a full KEP, or fixes that don’t include all the affected branches.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The process of deciding what makes it into a release starts way before the Release Teams takes over the workflows. 
Each individual SIG along with the most experienced contributors gets to decide whether 
they’d like to include a feature or change, so the planning and ultimate approval usually belongs to them. 
Then, the Release Team makes sure those contributions meet the requirements of 
documentation, testing, backwards compatibility, among others, before officially allowing them in. 
A similar process happens with cherry-picks for the monthly patch releases, where we have strict policies 
about not accepting PRs that would require a full KEP, or fixes that don’t include all the affected branches.
```
"Please wrap the Markdown source at, say, 100 characters per line."

> **3. What are some of the most significant challenges you’ve encountered while developing and releasing Kubernetes? How have you overcome these challenges?**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**3. What are some of the most significant challenges you’ve encountered while developing and releasing Kubernetes? 
How did you overcome these challenges?**
```
1. "Please wrap the Markdown source at, say, 100 characters per line."
2.  In 2nd line replace "have" with "did".

> Every cycle of release brings its own array of challenges. It might involve tackling last-minute concerns like newly discovered Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVEs), resolving bugs within our internal tools, or addressing unexpected regressions caused by features from previous releases. Another obstacle we often face is that, although our team is substantial, most of us contribute on a volunteer basis. Sometimes it can feel like we’re a bit understaffed, however we always manage to get organised and make it work.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Every cycle of release brings its own array of challenges. 
It might involve tackling last-minute concerns like newly discovered Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVEs), 
resolving bugs within our internal tools, or addressing unexpected regressions 
caused by features from previous releases. 
Another obstacle we often face is that, although our team is substantial, most of us contribute on a volunteer basis. 
Sometimes it can feel like we’re a bit understaffed, however we always manage to get organized and make it work.
```
"Please wrap the Markdown source at, say, 100 characters per line."

> **4. As a new contributor, what should be my ideal path to get involved with SIG Release? In a community where everyone is busy with their own tasks, how can I find the right set of tasks to contribute effectively to it?**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**4. As a new contributor, what should be my ideal path to get involved with SIG Release? 
In a community where everyone is busy with their own tasks, 
how can I find the right set of tasks to contribute effectively to it?**
```
"Please wrap the Markdown source at, say, 100 characters per line."

> Everyone's way of getting involved within the Open Source community is different. SIG Release is a self-serving team, meaning that we write our own tools to be able to ship releases. We collaborate a lot with other SIGs, such as [SIG K8s Infra](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/sig-k8s-infra/README.md), but all the tools that we used needs to be tailor-made for our massive technical needs, while reducing costs. This means that we are constantly looking for volunteers who’d like to help with different types of projects, beyond “just” cutting a release.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Everyone's way of getting involved within the Open Source community is different. 
SIG Release is a self-serving team, meaning that we write our own tools to be able to ship releases. We collaborate a lot with other SIGs, such as 
[SIG K8s Infra](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/sig-k8s-infra/README.md), 
but all the tools that we used needs to be tailor-made for our massive technical needs, while reducing costs. 
This means that we are constantly looking for volunteers who’d like to help with different types of projects, 
beyond “just” cutting a release.
```
"Please wrap the Markdown source at, say, 100 characters per line."

> Our current project requires a mix of skills like [Go](https://go.dev/) programming, understanding Kubernetes internals, Linux packaging, supply chain security, technical writing, and general open-source project maintenance. This skill set is always evolving as our project grows.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Our current project requires a mix of skills like [Go](https://go.dev/) programming, understanding Kubernetes internals, 
Linux packaging, supply chain security, technical writing, and general open-source project maintenance. 
This skill set is always evolving as our project grows.
```

For an ideal path, this is what we suggest:

- Get yourself familiar with the code, including how features are managed, the release calendar, and the overall structure of the Release Team.
- Join the Kubernetes community communication channels, such as [Slack](https://communityinviter.com/apps/kubernetes/community) (#sig-release), where we are particularly active. 
- Join the [SIG Release weekly meetings](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/sig-release#meetings)
 which are open to all in the community. 
 Participating in these meetings is a great way to learn about ongoing 
 and future projects that you might find relevant for your skillset and interests.

> Remember, every experienced contributor was once in your shoes, and the community is often more than willing to guide and support newcomers. Don't hesitate to ask questions, engage in discussions, and take small steps to contribute.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Remember, every experienced contributor was once at your place, and the community is often more than willing to guide and support newcomers. 
Don't hesitate to ask questions, engage in discussions, and take small steps to contribute.
```

<figure>
  <img src="/blog/2023/sig-release-spotlight/sig-release-meetings.png" alt="sig-release-questions">
</figure>

**5. What is the Release Shadow Program and how is it different from other shadow programs included in various other SIGs?**

> The Release Shadow Program offers a chance for interested individuals to shadow experienced members of the Release Team throughout a Kubernetes release cycle. This is a unique chance to see all the hard work that a Kubernetes release requires across sub-teams. A lot of people think that all we do is cut a release every three months, but that’s just the top of the iceberg.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Release Shadow Program offers a chance for interested individuals to shadow experienced members 
of the Release Team throughout a Kubernetes release cycle. 
This is a unique chance to see all the hard work that a Kubernetes release requires across sub-teams. 
A lot of people think that all we do is cut a release every three months, but that’s just the tip of iceberg.
```

> Our program typically aligns with a specific Kubernetes release cycle, which has a predictable timeline of approximately three months. While this program doesn’t involve writing new Kubernetes features, it still requires a high sense of responsibility since the Release Team is the last step between a new release and thousands of contributors, so it’s a great opportunity to learn a lot about modern software development cycles at an accelerated pace.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Our program typically aligns with a specific Kubernetes release cycle, which has a predictable timeline of approximately three months. 
While this program doesn’t involve writing new Kubernetes features, it still requires a high sense of responsibility. 
Since, the Release Team is the last step between a new release and thousands of contributors, 
so it’s a great opportunity to learn a lot about modern software development cycles at an accelerated pace.
```

**6. What are the qualifications that you generally look for in a person to volunteer as a release shadow/release lead for the next Kubernetes release?**

> While all the roles require some degree of technical ability, some require more hands-on experience with Go and familiarity with the Kubernetes API while others require people who are good at communicating technical content in a clear and concise way. It’s important to mention that we value enthusiasm and commitment over technical expertise from day 1. If you have the right attitude and show us that you enjoy working with Kubernetes and or/release engineering, even if it’s only through a personal project that you put together in your spare time, the team will make sure to guide you. Being a self-starter and not being afraid to ask questions can take you a long way in our team.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
While all the roles require some degree of technical ability, some require more hands-on experience with Go 
and familiarity with the Kubernetes API while others require people who are good at communicating technical content 
in a clear and concise way. It’s important to mention that we value enthusiasm and commitment over technical expertise from day 1. 
If you have the right attitude and show us that you enjoy working with Kubernetes and or/release engineering, 
even if it’s only through a personal project that you put together in your spare time, 
the team will make sure to guide you. Being a self-starter and not being afraid to ask questions can take you a long way in our team.
```

> **7. What will you suggest to someone who has got rejected from being a part of the Release Shadow Program several times?**

Reviewer 2: "who has got" vs "who got" vs "who's got" seems to be mostly a usage difference (with perhaps regional preference), I don't think it makes much of a difference here - happy to be corrected though.

> **7. What will you suggest to someone who has got rejected from being a part of the Release Shadow Program several times?**

Reviewer: I'm happy with the original text here @nitishfy.

> **7. What will you suggest to someone who has got rejected from being a part of the Release Shadow Program several times?**

Author: Marking it as resolved

> Keep applying.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Keep applying!
```

Author: I think the full stop (.) would work better than the exclamation mark.

> With every release cycle we have had an exponential growth in the number of applicants, so it gets harder to be selected, which can be discouraging, but please know that getting rejected doesn’t mean you’re not talented. It’s just practically impossible to accept every applicant, however here's an alternative that we suggest:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
With every release cycle we have had an exponential growth in the number of applicants, 
so it gets harder for us to select, which can be discouraging, but please know that getting rejected doesn’t mean you’re not talented. 
It’s just practically impossible to accept every applicant, however here's an alternative that we suggest:
```

*Start attending our weekly Kubernetes SIG Release meetings to introduce yourself and get familiar with the team and the projects we are working on.*

> The Release Team is one of the way to join SIG Release, but we are always looking for more hands to help. Again, in addition to certain technical ability, the most sought after trait that we look for is people we can trust, and that requires time.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Release Team is one of the way to join SIG Release, but we are always looking for more hands to help. 
Again, in addition to certain technical ability, the most sought after trait that we look for is people is 
"People we can trust, and that requires time."
```

<figure>
  <img src="/blog/2023/sig-release-spotlight/sig-release-motivation.png" alt="sig-release-motivation">
</figure>

> **8. Can you discuss any ongoing initiatives or upcoming features that the release team is particularly excited about for Kubernetes v1.28? How do these advancements align with the long-term vision of Kubernetes?**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**8. Can you discuss any ongoing initiatives or upcoming features that the release team is particularly excited 
about for Kubernetes v1.29? How do these advancements align with the long-term vision of Kubernetes?**
```

> We are excited about finally publishing Kubernetes packages on community infrastructure. It has been something that we have been wanting to do for a few years now, but it’s a project with many technical implications that must be in place before doing the transition. Once that’s done, we’ll be able to increase our productivity and take control of the entire workflows.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We are excited about finally publishing Kubernetes packages on community infrastructure. 
It has been something that we have been wanting to do for a few years now, 
but it’s a project with many technical implications that must be in place before doing the transition. 
Once that’s done, we’ll be able to increase our productivity and take control of the entire workflows.
```

## Final thoughts

> Well, this conversation ends here but not the learning. I hope this interview has given you some idea about what SIG Release does and how to get started in helping out. It is important to mention again that this article covers the first subproject under SIG Release, the Release Team. In the next Spotlight blog on SIG Release, we will provide a spotlight on the Release Engineering subproject, what it does and how to get involved. Finally, you can go through the [SIG Release charter](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/sig-release) to get a more in-depth understanding of how SIG Release operates.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Well, this conversation ends here but not the learning. I hope this interview has given you some idea about what SIG Release 
does and how to get started in helping out. 
It is important to mention again that this article covers the first subproject under SIG Release, the Release Team. 
In the next Spotlight blog on SIG Release, we will provide a spotlight on the Release Engineering subproject, 
what it does and how to get involved in it. Finally, you can go through the 
[SIG Release charter](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/sig-release) 
to get a more in-depth understanding of how SIG Release operates.
```
